
### About

This application is designed to help students and lecturers at the University of Exeter to go through dissertation selection process in a efficient manner. It allows students to view and choose a project topic for their dissertation in real time. Also it reduces lecturers' paperwork and the overall bureaucracy
The application represents one of the potential alternatives to the current inneficient project management system at the University of Exeter.

### The problem

Currently, at Exeter University, the selection of the topic for the dissertation is a time-consuming process. Some academic staff members are asked to present their research interests and project ideas that students can choose from for their dissertation. The amount of project could be one or even ten for each lecturer. Students are provided with a list of lecturers containing their research interests and project ideas for selection. They are free to choose from any project and have to email the project's author to confirm the selection. This is when issues start occurring. Exactly the same project could not be chosen by two or more students, to avoid plagiarism. Therefore, lecturers have to identify which students are taking specific projects. The rule is simple: "First come, first served". They are invaded with emails from students that are willing to take specific project. The first one must be identified, and the rest of the them need to be informed that the project is taken. This is a meticulous work that needs to be done, especially when a lecturer has many projects. On the other hand, students are waiting for weeks or even months for the project selection confirmation. This time could be used to research the desired topic, to be more prepared for the dissertation.

### Solution 

Creating an application that avoids wasting University's resources and improves students- lecturers communication, is welcomed. The aim of this project is to design and implement an Android application that will allow users a real-time access to all projects. It will enable students to see which projects are taken and select the available ones instantly. Also, the application will allow students to stay in a queue for a project that is not available and take it in case when the other student changes his/her mind. Each student will have a profile and project management interface which will provide basic functionalities for project management activity.
Another objective of the application is automatic project selection, which means that the only role of the project's author will be monitoring. Identifying the first project selection request and informing the other students about the project status is no longer lecturers' attribute. The system will take care of this automatically, when a student selects a specific project in the app, the database will be updated instantly. Project selection is based on first come first served principle. The application will provide a synchronous data updating mechanism, so all users could view and make changes to the database simultaneously. It is important that the system keeps track of each selection and is robust because a minor mistake may mess up everything. Among the profile, academic staff members will have the opportunity to create a project from scratch, update or remove a project. Also, they will be able to see what projects are taken and by which students to contact them if it is necessary.
